for most of the year bison bulls and
cows live separate lives but for a few
weeks in late summer thousands
congregate in this Yellowstone Valley
it's the rut the mating season and the
biggest Bulls are busy guarding their
homes a dominant bull might mate with
over 50 females for the calves born this
year now is the time to stretch their
young legs
[Music]
but as the herd grows so tensions rise
the RuPt takes a heavy toll on the big
balls
so arriving now could give this young
contender an edge
[Music]
but there's life in the old bull yet
head-to-head the Challenger more than
holds his own
then he makes a small mistake
shunted aside his challenge is brutally
ended
[Music]
the young bull gambled everything and
has paid a heavy price
[Music]